# QuickFlash
A small flashcard webapp using Streamlit and PostgreSQL

QuickFlash
The simple flashcard app

  QuickFlash is designed to be a quick and easy flash card app where anyone can create and share flashcards they use to study. With SQL integration finding and browsing flashcards can be simple and efficient. Along with making your own flashcards, you can like and copy the flashcards made by others, sorted by subject and number of likes. If you are looking for something specific, you can also use the search bar to search through flashcard set titles. When I created this webapp, I wanted to make something that I could easily see myself using, and is flexible in terms of what can be implemented, which is why I ended up deciding to create a flashcard app, the goal is clear and concise and  I have a good idea of the features that I would like to use in such an app.
	
  My webapp is designed to fill the basic 4 CRUD functionality as well as possess an “advanced function”. The users can create accounts, as well as sets of flash cards and the cards with them. The users can also read the data for flashcards, being able to see sets and the cards within of both their own and other flashcards that have been published. The users can update their flashcards, changing the cards within the set to add or change them. The user can also delete data. Being able to erase flashcards or entire flashcard sets that they themselves have made. I have a minor and major advanced functionality that I have implemented. The minor one being the ability to copy flashcard sets from users, creating your own copy within your library that you can change as you please. The major advanced function implemented was the app recommendation system, I utilized subqueries to make a portion of the homepage dedicated to recommending the user specific sets. The set recommendation is based on the subjects of the cards the user has created, as well as total likes of the flashcard set being recommended. With this system I hope the user can find flashcard sets relevant to them, cutting down on the time spent browsing, and giving the user more time to study in turn.
  
  When I first planned out the project, I had planned to use Google Firestore and create the program using Javascript. However I eventually opted to instead utilize python with streamlit for the frontend, drastically cutting down on the time it takes to build the site. I also ended up using postgresql to create the backend database, which I decided to do because I could easily connect it with python and allowed me to use the skills in SQL that I have learned over the course of the class.  Through python connection I was able to connect my database to the frontend very easily through normal SQL queries. Here is a link to the Github repository containing the source code of my webapp. 

  I created the database in a way that the tables are very split, such fragmented tables makes it easier to manage data and  changes in the data, as a change in one aspect does not affect the database table of something else. Every piece of data was put into its own table, Flashcard sets have their own table, the actual flashcards have their own table, users and likes have their own tables, etc. In total I have 7 tables of data. Since all of my data is split into small individual tables, I avoid transitive dependencies, as any chaining dependencies are handled across multiple tables, instead of all being in one table. However, with the design of the database, the same key can sometimes be on both the left and right hand side, depending on the table in question. Due to this, my database is not in BCNF form. Here is E-R diagram and relational schema of my database.

  This project was a solo undertaking, and actually took a fair bit more time than I had originally anticipated, especially due to using new tools to create this app. I have no other group members to evaluate
  
  This project taught me a lot about database design. In the beginning tables, my messy database tables made it hard to make alterations, and I ended up having to start anew with smarter database design, which made the rest of the process a whole lot easier. I also learned how to use the tools Streamlit and PostGreSQL that really streamlined the process of creating the webpage, allowing me to focus more on what I want the app to do and how to implement what I want through SQL. This project is relatively basic compared to other similar things out there but the good thing about this project is its flexibility. It can be expanded to be more and do more things. Number 1 would be the visuals; the webpage is not impressive visually, and there can be a ton of improvements in readability and appeal. Number 2 would be even more advancements for the recommendations feature, as of now the recommendations are only based on subjects and likes, the recommendation systems of more mature programs take a ton more things into account. For example, like ratio, downloads, views, retention, even creating networks of users that like similar content. My project is flexible enough to implement a lot of these extra stats in the future. 
  
References
https://docs.streamlit.io/
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
https://neon.tech/postgresql/postgresql-python/connect
